## GENE367 2020 Class: Gene Mapping Experiment ##
You are given an arbitrary case, in which you are interested in mapping locations three genes A, B, and C in relation to each other. The imaginary organism that we use here is a diploid obligately sexually reproducing organism with four pairs of chromosomes (2n = 8). All of these three genes have  **complete dominance**; that is, the capital letter alleles suppress the expression of their lower case counterparts (e.g. A>a). There are only two alleles for each gene (capital and lower case letters). 

To answer this question, you will need to follow the preparation steps given in the script below. Don't forget to set your working directory. The line of code to do that is not given in the script. The R environment file provided (named "functions") has the functions each group needs to conduct their simulations. The functions simulates *(i)* the gamete production (via single crossing overs - double crossing overs are ignored) of a heterozygous F1 individual obtained from mating between an AABBCC and aabbcc, *(ii)* its mating with a recessive parental individual (i.e. the backcross), and it gives the phenotype of the resulting F2 individual. Each group has a unique function that simulates different cases (i.e. different gene order, different gene distances and different linkage groups). You will need to run the code given below **before** you run your functions. You will run your own group's function (which takes no arguments) **10.000 times** and use the results to do the gene mapping (that's equivalent of having 10.000 F2 offspring in an experiment). It is really easy to do that in R. I assume you already remember how to use R from your second year class Biometry. If not, you are on your own =) You are not allowed to ask me coding-related questions.

```{r}
# Set your working directory. Just in case you need it for something. Make it a habit. You kind of always need to do it anyway.

# Create a set of locations along an arbitrary chromosome, length of which is 1.00 units or 100cM. This is important info here. You will need this.  
seq(from = 0.01, to = 1.00, by = 0.01) -> freqs

# Simulate the crossing over location. You can think of this fraction as the randomly chosen location of the crossing over along the chromosome.
sample(x = freqs, size = 1, replace = T) -> x_over_female

# Define an operator that is the inverse of %in% operator. This needed for your functions to function =) Just do it.I could have put this inside the functions, but it was too late when I realized that I had left this out, so here it is =) 
Negate("%in%") -> "%ni%"
```

Your are asked to map the genes in your own group's case and provide the result as a **MS Word file (which will be uploaded to odtuclass)**. You can (optional) include a simple gene map with distances shown on it. You will have to provide the lines of code you use to obtain your results. Don't forget to present the results of your simulation (how many of each phenotype there are in your 10.000 sample), mark the A-B, A-C and B-C recombinant phenotypes, and show your calculations in the MS Word file. Remember, you cannot obtain the distances when the recombinant frequencies are higher than **0.50**. Those of you **whose official student ID ends with [0:3] will use group 1's function, those of you whose official student ID ends with [4:6] will use group 2's function, and those of you whose official student ID ends with [7:9] will use group 3's function.** You are also expected to comment on your results and explain your reasoning. Your final report **should not be longer than two standard pages of A4** in MS Word with Arial size 12 font and a single space between the lines. 

If you have any questions, you should think about for another day before you email me at ozgencil@metu.edu.tr. Please don't flood my email address with 968234 emails a day. Remember, I love you all very much, but I am super busy with my own studies =) That being said, if you do have persisting problems, please feel free to email me or simply wait for the **question & answer session on 21.11.2020 at 20:30 (Turkish time)**. My task here is not to cause you any trouble. This simple homework will teach you about the basics of three-point gene mapping and will remind you how to use R a little bit. This was the only solution I could come up with to teach this subject online and still have an experiment, so I hope you enjoy it. I had a great time writing the code =) By the way, you are expected to do this homework on your own and not ask for help from your classmates. I have spent some good time preparing it and I expect some honesty and honor. Good luck! 
